what's up everybody Brendon Hufford here
welcome to 100 days of SEO today in this
video we are talking about lyrics we're
talking about Google and whether or not
Google can steal your content let's go
[Music]
so you may or may not have heard there's
a recent Wall Street Journal article
that accused Google of stealing content
from a website to place in a song lyrics
box now if you google certain types of
commodity things sports scores weather
or previously what I thought to be a
commodity song lyrics Google just kind
of takes that content and puts it
directly into search it's a no click
search you're not clicking through to a
website that's great because that
enhances the search experience
you shouldn't have to click through a
website to find you know what the latest
score of the Bears game was or anything
it's awesome that it's right there in
search it's way better and if Google
wants to continue having a really
popular search engine they need to do
things like that now what I learned from
this article and everything that I'm
gonna explain in this video is that song
lyrics aren't a commodity as much as I
thought they were cuz here let me catch
you up here's what happened what
happened was this website genius has
known for years that Google was scraping
the lyrics from their website and
putting it in the lyric boxes in search
and in order to prove that they put a
sort of hidden code in the apostrophes
they use two different kinds of
apostrophes in their lyrics so that when
Google scraped it and put it directly in
the search which they're not allowed to
do because they're not providing any
sort of attribution it was pretty
obvious that they did now we have a film
gross you know Google has said that like
they didn't do this they've still
maintained that they haven't scraped it
and if it was scraped it was done by a
third party that they have contracted
with so it's not really their fault it's
their contractors fault their contractor
has also said they didn't scrape it but
like at this point it's kind of
immaterial because they they clearly did
I'm Captain Obvious here's what that
looks like
[Music]
you can see really clearly the two
different kinds of apostrophes and then
when it comes through into this it's
obvious right and I really want to just
take a second to pause and thank AJ Kohn
EJ runs our really cool
San Francisco SEO agency you can the
link is in the description below so
check out EJ also check out AJ Twitter
but a lot of this has come what I've
learned from this and a lot of the the
thinking around this has been spurred on
by AJ and I just want to give credit
where credit's due
now here's what this matters for you is
that can Google steal your content now
what's conflicting about this is
according to the Google quality rater
guidelines Google says that these lyric
boxes are all licensed content they're
all licensed everything is paid for
nothing is stolen and this is what's
interesting is that lyrics are not a
commodity piece of content like I
thought so these companies are not
trading in commodities they have humans
sitting at desks working on like trying
to figure out what the actual correct
lyrics are so even when they license
them the license doesn't give them the
lyrics they don't get the lyrics from
the you know the recording company or
the artist or whatever they don't get
them handed over they stuff to figure
them out on their own they just get the
license just gives them permission to
publish them on their website it
certainly does not give Google
permission to then scrape them and put
add them into search and maybe this is
the point you don't care about the
quality rater guidelines like I'm not
making this just for my peers in the SEO
industry
I want you who maybe isn't in the SEO
industry to really understand what the
impact is for you you're wondering can
Google steal my content they're stealing
these song lyrics without attribution
can they take my content and put that
into search here's the danger with this
and what I'm really excited about this
next week I'm going to be talking about
AI and SEO and can AI created content
actually rank better than human created
content but this is along those lines as
can Google take human content and just
steal it and put it right in the search
can the articles you write without any
sort of attribution just Shutt start
going up in search engines like Google
the answer I'm sorry is yes Google has
proven in this instance that they're not
gonna follow their own guidelines their
own quality rater guidelines they're
gonna use third parties that scrape
content and have since 2014 and they
know they are and they're not gonna do
anything about it they can do this sort
of stuff No is this some sort of sky is
falling again to reference this other
video I'll link it below once it's up
but it's not out yet if you're watching
this when it first comes out like with
the relation to AI in SEO it's just all
of this like sky is falling Google's to
conceal your comment and conceal your
content robots are replacing us like
because it's not real it's fine Google's
not going to steal your content but they
can and there's really nothing you can
do about it that's what you have to keep
creating content that is unequivocably
yours the gray area of lyrics is too
gray it was so hard for so long to prove
that these were actually this one
websites lyrics and not from another
website or not from a third party with
your content has to be unequivocably
yours so that Google can never say oh we
made this ourselves
so keep making awesome unique you know
value adding content I know those are
all buzzwords but you know what I'm
saying keep making that kind of content
and you'll do just fine if you want to
learn about how to create more of that
content check out the 1 ranking away
challenge it's a 30 day SEO challenge
it's the 20 percent that I know about
SEO that'll get you 80% of the way there
check that out 100 days of SEO calm /
subscribe I've been runnin tougher don't
forget to work hard be nice people don't
get too lost trying to create something
that matters
[Music]
and since 2014
I'm like all over the place it's hot
it's so hot in this room that I'm in I'm
all over the place in this video this is
awful